### #3 Testing magic

This story continues [#2 Butterfly ending](#2%20Butterfly%20ending.md). So far ABCDEFG_O we used. This story introduces H and develops further personalities of C and G.

G (short for George) is a retired professor of theoretical mathematical physics. He still does some occasional consulting work and spends the rest of his time with his granddaughter, E (short for Elisabeth). His thinking is inventive and permissive as he is primarily concerned with questions: "Why not?", "What if?" etc.

After reading some fairy tales with E, G hypothesizes that non-trivial behaviors can create miracles. Indeed, miracles are rare, unexpected, and unpredictable events that fall out of the norm; thus, behaving marginally is the only reliable way to facilitate a miraculous event. Of course, behaving at a margin, for example, of social acceptability, one should stay within the law.

At a picnic, G discusses his brilliant theory with his son C (short for Charles) and his son's friend psychiatrist H (short for Henry). H comments that it is normal for children to devise and execute their fantastic ideas, for example, running in the rain without an umbrella, standing with an open mouth to catch a snowflake, or painting in bright colors. The whole point of growing up is to learn how to self-sensor oneself. It is still ok to have fantastic ideas, but acting or executing them would be a sign of a developmental deficiency or a mental disorder.

Coming from an engineering background, C presses his father to devise a specific miraculous scenario and a method to achieve it. G speculates that he will win a lottery by collecting lost coins and buying a ticket. Finding coins worth several dollars will require luck and time, but this unconventional never-tried method should surely work. G looks around and immediately finds a penny which makes him ecstatic because omens are a known feature in the theory of miracles. Picnic ends with C suggesting G study the works of Nassim Taleb on the subject of the black swan events. And H jokingly reassures C that such behavior does not require medical intervention and prescription of psychotic drugs; in contrast, the fact that finding a penny can make one so happy is a miracle of its own.

A few days later, C comes to a gym as his wife's guest. C rarely exercises because he is busy in the office at work. He finds a pile of lost coins in the locker room under the bench, and he is ecstatic because it is much more than a penny his father found at a picnic. Speculating that he also witnessed an omen, C decides to test his father's theory of miracles. He tells his wife A (short for Amelie) that he will be coming to the gym more often with her, which makes her happy.

Shortly after that, C picks up his daughter from the extended daycare program (EDP), and he finds more coins. His analytical mind tells him that schools and daycares are metaphorical "gold mines" for lost coins since kids are primarily coin-operated. C asks a janitor to take him to a part-time. He finds the needed sum and buys a lottery ticket. One number out of six matches winning numbers. C considers the outcome a great success since he defined a winning ticket as one with some winning numbers.

Unfortunately, C is overqualified to become a full-time janitor at school. So, he devises a plan for a childcare franchise; see [Marian Childcare](../../Projects/Marian%20Childcare/Marian%20Childcare.md). His proposal has a valid humanitarian aspect, but the true motivation is to test his father's theory of miracles. He plans to codify in the by-laws that any coins found on properties must be given into a fund for the purpose of buying lottery tickets. Proceeds, if any, are to be reinvested into the childcare franchise, akin Ponzi scheme. The only problem is finding investors for seed money.

C tells his idea as a bedtime story to his daughter E. She likes it. And in a week, she and her friends collect enough lost coins at EDP to buy his next lottery ticket. Of course, it wins the jackpot, and now with several hundred million, C is tasked with changing his occupation and becoming a CEO of a childcare franchise.