### #4 Rainbow

This story continues [#3 Testing magic](#3%20Testing%20magic.md). So far ABCDEFGH_O were used. This story introduces I and J, uses X and develops H's personality further.

I is visiting his friend F. Both of them are recently divorced. F has started his soulmate search, while I is cooling from his separation drama. F complains that online dating is not productive for him and tells a weird story. -- He was meeting a woman with an adopted daughter for several weeks. Everything was going well for him, but then she called a group meeting with all potential candidates for her heart to decide on marriage, and he broke up with her; see [#1 Alphabet soup](#1%20Alphabet%20soup.md). I tells F that he was doing the search wrong -- he should be asking his heart. F gives I his phone: "Here. I am logged at the dating website, and you can show me your method."

I scrolls through women's photos for about an hour. Three moves his heart. From F's account, I writes them: "I overlooked your photo on my friend's phone. It seems that magic happened -- I fell in love. Do you believe in magic?" Out of three, one replied affirmatively. I creates his own profile and contacts her. Her name is J (short for Jessica). She is close to perfect: she is about the same age as I and likes nature and the outdoors. She works in the construction business and is a deacon at church and a fitness instructor. Her profile, among other things, reads: "Right now, I'm reading Bible." I is a software engineer, but he likes fairytales and has a book by the Brothers Grimm next to technical literature. Moreover, I goes to church to listen to the pipe organ and can tolerate and sometimes enjoy the rest of the service. I believes that their relationship might work out, and decides to give it a try.

After some brief online conversations with J, I feels that they can move further romantically. Unfortunately, I is very conservative, so I can only proceed in such a situation by informing the other party that they will be working toward possible marriage. Maybe I's explanation was confusing or strange for J, but she abruptly blocks him on the dating website. By that time, I was already in love. Her actions causes much pain, and I hopes they could talk. But I knows no personal information about J other than she lives in town X.

One evening I's heart is aching, and I decides to practice "magic." I hypothesizes that true love could make miracles. I puts town X as a destination in his car's GPS and starts praying to God in his heart. It is a complicated 1-hour drive for I since continuous praying inside one's heart requires significant concentration. So, on the highways, I is following cars riding in the same direction. Approaching X, a red Chevy Bolt passes him with a girl behind the wheel. In one of J's photos, she was next to her red Toyota truck, so I feels he should ignore GPS and follow that red car. The car goes on local roads; sometime later, they pass a house with a red Toyota truck parked in front of it. It has the same distinct black alloy wheels as in J's photo. So, I stops. It is 9pm, lights are on in the house, and he questions: "Should I knock on the door and ask for J?" The whole situation is unnerving, and I is hesitant. From I's point of view, it is right to talk with her, and I would be breaking no law. But the success of "magic" was too dramatic that I wishes for another "pragmatic" proof of finding J. So, I calls F for help. F searches through a registry of deeds and confirms that J indeed resides in the house I parked next to. It is already about 11pm, so I considers it inappropriate to bother her so late.

Before further contacting J, I decides to go to church and discuss his "miraculous" finding. To his surprise notion of God's involvement is rejected, and I is accused of stalking. Anyway, the final decision is up to I. So, I sits in the car, looks at the sky, and asks his heart if there is a mutual love. The answer is negative. It is right to allow freedom for one's free will, and I lets his one-sided love go. I continues sitting in the car, gazing into the sky as tears starts rolling. If love is an illness, then I is cured with a significant water loss as his love eventually passes into a sunset.

Later that evening, F inquires how I is doing. I honestly tells him that he was sitting in the parking lot behind the church crying. F is worried and turns I into a psychiatric facility. The attending psychiatrist in the hospital is H (short for Henry). Doctor H talks at length with F upon admittance of I. H observes I and establishes that I slept well through the night, has a good appetite, and behaves reasonably. On the second day, in the late afternoon, H talks with I about his "miracle." Doctor H tells I that he had weak impulse control and should be strictly rational next time and avoid bizarre situations. I admits that he poorly copes with stress and should seek a more predictable life and restrict his vivid imagination. Consequently, H clears I without medication.

When it is time for Doctor H to return home from the hospital, an idea crosses his mind to drive to town X at the address I has given him. Recently his rationality was crumbled by inexplicable events in his friend's life; see [#3 Testing magic](./#3%20Testing%20magic.md), so H decides to execute his "brilliant" idea. A red Toyota truck is parked in front of the house. He tries to ring the bell, but it seems to be broken. H knocks on the door, and J opens it.  
-- [J] Hi. How can I help you?  
-- [H] May I speak to J?  
-- [J] It is me. Do you have any questions for me?  
-- [H] I am a doctor and came on my patient's behalf. [After some pause, scratching his head.] Unfortunately, I will not be able to provide you more details.

There is an awkward pause in their dialog. H realizes that (1) he is a bachelor, (2) he came to a house of a woman who seeks a romantic relationship, and (3) any further explanations or telling J the complete story would not be wise. Suddenly a heavy rain starts turning into a hail storm. And J asks H to step in.  
-- [J] I am getting ready to leave for the gym.  
-- [H] Can I join you as a guest? Purely by chance, I have my gym bag with me in the car.  
-- [J] Sure. Give me 15 minutes.  
-- [H, looking absently into a window] The rain will be short. The sky will clear, the sun will shine, and there will be a rainbow.  
-- [J] Perfect! I love rainbows.

**PS:** H talked later with a retired professor of theoretical mathematical physics G (short for George). According to him, genuinely miraculous events happen in quantum mechanics. Here one needs to refer to the famous double-slit experiment. If one observes an electron going through two slits, it behaves like a classical mechanical object. If an electron is left to oneself, it paradoxically travels like a wave. Correspondingly, the naïve attempt of I to pray and find a person can succeed, but if one sets a scientific experiment when one gives I a photo of a person to find, he most probably will fail.

[According to the article in Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-slit_experiment): The double-slit experiment (and its variations) has become a classic for its clarity in expressing the central puzzles of quantum mechanics. Because it demonstrates the fundamental limitation of the ability of the observer to predict experimental results, Richard Feynman called it "a phenomenon which is impossible [...] to explain in any classical way, and which has in it the heart of quantum mechanics. In reality, it contains the only mystery [of quantum mechanics]."