### #5 Breaking symmetry

This story continues [#4 Rainbow](#4%20Rainbow.md). So far, ABCDEFGHIJ_O_X has been used. This story introduces fictional characters K and L and develops G's personality further.

E (short for Elizabeth) is doing her English homework at the Extended Day Program (EDP). Her high-school counselor B (short for Bob) is helping her. B complains about his English assignment. He needs to write a fiction story involving scientific theory; however, to his great disappointment, plots with time travel are not allowed. E suggests asking for ideas from her grandfather G (short for George) when he picks her up.

G is a retired professor of theoretical mathematical physics, and he proposes B write on symmetry breaking.  
-- [G goes on a long monologue] "In physics, symmetry breaking is a phenomenon where a disordered but symmetrical state collapses into an ordered but less symmetric state. This collapse is often one of many possible bifurcations a particle can take as it approaches a lower energy state. Due to many possibilities, an observer may assume the result of the collapse to be arbitrary" [see [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symmetry_breaking)].
For example, suppose I am writing a story about K (short for Karen) and L (short for Leonard). K and L have been married for a long time, and their kids have recently left for college. L is working, and K is still staying at home. She enjoys cooking and cooks a lot. L loves his wife's cooking but cannot eat that much. L is frustrated. But K usually replies to his complaints that she cannot change and that serving food is the way for her to express her feelings toward L, and she serves him so much food because she loves him a lot.  
-- [B interrupts G] Am I correct that you have created a symmetrical disordered state where L is simultaneously happy and dissatisfied with his wife?  
-- [G] Correct. Moreover, it takes L a lot of energy to be calm with K and to keep his weight in check by going to the gym regularly. There are more ordered but less symmetrical low-energy states. Can you outline a negative one?  
-- [B] Easily. At school, we are always told to resolve problems via a dialog, define our boundaries, be assertive, etc. Those psychological techniques rarely work. So, L once again tries to talk with K, but in vain; unfortunately, he loses his temper. They subsequently divorce. L starts to live alone and is consistently unhappy. He cooks poorly, gets ulcers, and dies. The end.  
-- [G] Perfect. Let me counter with a positive scenario. -- Rather than restraining K's enthusiasm toward cooking, L embraces it. He invites his colleagues and friends to stop by his home after work to share a dinner, thus effectively reducing his portion sizes. Everyone admires the delicious cooking of K, and some ask her to teach their wives how to cook so well. K comes up with the idea of becoming a cooking tutor. She succeeds with the following scheme -- she and her student do grocery shopping in the afternoon, and they prepare a family meal for the evening. K is happy. And L is happy to eat as little leftovers as he wants on the evenings K is working.  
-- [B] Why would symmetry break toward the positive scenario?  
-- [G] Suppose I am writing this story as a movie plot. As I expand on characters and their actions, I will imagine myself in their conditions and live through their feelings and emotions. If those are negative, I will feel bad and possibly get depressed. In contrast, I will stay happy and optimistic if things turn out positive. The choice is obvious -- in order to feel emotionally happy, I will conspire in positive favor.  
-- [B impatiently] I can also turn things to better. For example, children are playing soccer. The ball is kicked far and ends on the road, and the boy runs to pick it up. As he bends down, a car comes around the corner. The driver hits the brakes, but collision is inevitable. The car hits him on his soft buttocks and sends him flying into a ditch next to the road. Luckily, the boy ends up only with a few scratches.  
-- [G] Your story is exactly what happened to me in my childhood. I always wondered about the reason for me to be alive after this accident. Thank you. Your positive attitude broke the symmetry of the universe and saved my life.  
-- [B bewildered] You are welcome.  
-- [G] I suggest you retell this story for your English assignment.

**PS:** Sometime later, G gifted B a poster with Bruce Lee and his saying: "Don't speak negatively about yourself, even as a joke. Your body doesn't know the difference. Words are energy and cast spells; that's why it's called spelling. Change the way you speak about yourself, and you can change your life. What you're not changing, you're also choosing."